Ok going to live code through something here.
Got a student is having an issue and this is a repository.
I asked him to upload the whole project and it's a lot easier for me to troubleshoot stuff like that.
So the first thing I'm going to do is go ahead and clone it to my own GitHub account.
I'm sorry fork it.
I want to fork this to my Git. So I forking over to mine right now and then I will download it to mine
so then there's the fork.
Now I want to clone or download it so you just copy that over jump over here to the terminal
clone that down.
Now I want to come over to IntelliJ and open up this project. So I am going to say new project from existing
sources.
And see I'm working on some Spring 5 stuff right now.
So come down here to source that thing and put in temp
a different temp.
Got a couple of temp directories
so that Spring Data and go ahead click open
up this in IntelliJ. Import project.
Take all the defaults there.
That looks fine
and say OK it's like the JDK to use.
And let's see what we've got here.
And of course it opened up in a different window.
Bring that over to the one that we are recording on
now what he's telling me is we're having a problem with when we're logging in.
So working on some Spring Security stuff and say if we leave the credentials blank the program crashes.
Take a look at that now.
So we'll go ahead and start this IntelliJ just finished indexing the project
and now this is coming up because there is no git ignore project so I'll fix that for him in a minute.
We don't have that.
And I have kept running somewhere else.
I think it's probably in my Spring 5 course he's on and they're. Going to kill them.
Come back over to this and try that one more time should run better.
If it doesn't have a port conflict
so we are up and running so let's go over to Chrome and take a look at what's happening here.
It's working OK here we are.
So the problem is it crashes.
We're getting 500 or so that's good.
Take a look at what's happening.
Look at the stack trace.
So we're getting a NPE there.
So we have a boolean there and that has not been initialized.
So we can do is set a default value for that
and restart it.
I don't think we have a Spring Boot DevTools cooking.
Try this again.
There we go.
So just that little null pointer error.
So now that validation is working correctly
and it's also I have a problem with the H-2 console. So let's take a look at that
saying that it's coming up to a blank database.
Actually not coming up to anything at all.
So I don't know exactly what that is that's in the Spring config.
I am going to pause this one second I need to look something up.
OK I had to look up a couple of things there and the Spring Security and actually found my own blog
post be helpful when I wrote a while back.
So a couple of things wrong with the setup here.
The ignoringAntMatchers there on line 53 should have a wild card there.
And then the reason that it was coming up blank we both need to disable csrf.
But we also need to do the header frameOptions and disable that as well.
So that's where the Spring Security is interfering with the H-2 database console.
So I've made those couple of tweaks there and then on line 57,
I also explicitly said to permit all to the h2-console URL path and I've restarted the Spring Boot
already.
And if we come over here test it out and see that it does come up and we can come in and see or take
a look at users and we can see that the H2 database consoleis is infact working.
Now one thing that often does trip people up.
Disconnect here is you've got to watch this JDBC URL.
So if you come in and have that URL wrong different from what Spring Boot is defaulting when you
try to connect.
Now you can see I did connect but I'm connecting to a blank database.
So it's not the database that we're working in that that often confuses people where they don't have
that URL correct.
And then they come in and say well I don't see my tables.
Technically connecting to the different H-2 in memory database with the database console or something,
definitely trips people up but just to view that one more time again that was the Spring Security causing
this to misbehave.
Specifically these these headers here, comment that I'll show you the behavior again so that it's
these frameOptions that are going to mess with the H-2 database console.
So we are almost back up now I come and refresh this.
You.
And when I connect you'd see that it's just a blank page
back over here.
Do that about Spring Boot.
We're back up if I refresh this page.
Now I can say connect and we connect normally.
So now I'm going to come over to IntelliJ. We shall commit that.
And technically if I was working on this for a company and done two commits here, two separate commits.
Always remember small incremental commits.
Go ahead and commit and push the
up on GitHub. I'll come over here.
Do a pull request.
And now he'll he will get that request from me and anybody else see my changes and of course I'm going
to share this video with them and get him going again.